# stock_price_prediction
Predicting stock price using timeseries ARIMA model and LSTM Model.
ARIMA on stock dataset:To predict an outcome based on time series data, we can use a time series model which is called Auto Regressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA) is used as the machine learning technique to analyze and predict future stock prices based on historical prices.
LSTM ON stock dataset:Long short term memory (LSTM) is a model that increases the memory of recurrent neural networks. Recurrent neural networks hold short term memory in that they allow earlier determining information to be employed in the current neural networks. For immediate tasks, the earlier data is used. We may not possess a list of all of the earlier information for the neural node. In RNNs, LSTMs are very widely used in Neural networks. Their effectiveness should be implemented to multiple sequence modelling problems in many application domains like video, NLP, geospatial, and time-series.
One of the main issues with RNN is the vanishing gradient problem, and it emerges due to the repeated use of the same parameters, in RNN blocks, at each step. We must try to use different parameters to overcome this problem at each time step.
We try to find a balance in such a situation. We bring novel parameters at each step while generalizing variable-length sequences and keeping the overall amount of learnable parameters constant. We introduce gated RNN cells like LSTM and GRU.
Gated cells hold internal variables, which are Gates. This value of each gate at each time step depends on the information at that time step, including early states. The value of the gate then becomes multiplied by the different variables of interest to influence them. Time-series data is a series of data values gathered over time interims, allowing us to trace differences over time. Time-series data can trace progress over milliseconds, days, and years.
Early, our perspective of time-series data meant more static; the everyday highs and lows under temperature, the opening and closing amount of the stock market. 
